README.adoc, before:

:toc: left
:source-highlighter: pygments
:doctype: book
:idprefix:
:docinfo:

# YkOtpApplet

## About

This is a JavaCard applet that emulates the HMAC challenge-response
functionality of the Yubikey NEO/4. It presents the same interface that a real
Yubikey presents over CCID (i.e. this applet does not have any HID features).

The goal is to be able to write applications that use the HMAC-SHA1
Challenge-Response mode of the Yubikey, and have a JavaCard with this applet
be a drop-in replacement.

## Current status

What works:

 * HMAC-SHA1 challenge response, in HMAC_LT64 mode
 * Setting configuration using `CMD_SET_CONF_{1,2}`
 * Using the protection access code to prevent accidental slot overwrite

## Installing

The pre-built `.cap` files for each release can be found on the
https://github.com/arekinath/ykotpapplet/releases[project release page].

You can use the
https://github.com/martinpaljak/GlobalPlatformPro[Global Platform] command-line
tool (`gp`) to upload the applet to your JavaCard:

-----
$ gp -install YkOtpApplet.cap
CAP loaded
-----

The easiest way to program the applet with an HMAC secret is to use
https://github.com/arekinath/yktool[yktool]:

-----
$ yktool list
Yubikeys available:
  - Yubikey 4 #279305487 v4.0.0

$ echo 'b6e3f555562c894b7af13b1db37f28deff3ea89b' | yktool program hmac 1 -x -X
Programmed slot 1 ok

$ printf 'aaaa' | yktool hmac 1 -x
72:7E:C8:E8:15:EE:C5:32:8F:9D:9C:BE:5E:F2:4E:A8:36:D7:CE:56
-----

## Building the project

We use https://github.com/martinpaljak/ant-javacard[ant-javacard] for builds.

-----
$ git clone https://github.com/arekinath/YkOtpApplet
...

$ cd YkOtpApplet
$ git submodule init && git submodule update
...

$ export JC_HOME=/path/to/jckit-2.2.2
$ ant
-----

The capfile will be output in the `./bin` directory, along with the `.class`
files (which can be used with jCardSim).

Commit message:

Add and document app-init helper script

README.adoc, after:

:toc: left
:source-highlighter: pygments
:doctype: book
:idprefix:
:docinfo:

# YkOtpApplet

## About

This is a JavaCard applet that emulates the HMAC challenge-response
functionality of the Yubikey NEO/4. It presents the same interface that a real
Yubikey presents over CCID (i.e. this applet does not have any HID features).

The goal is to be able to write applications that use the HMAC-SHA1
Challenge-Response mode of the Yubikey, and have a JavaCard with this applet
be a drop-in replacement.

## Current status

What works:

 * HMAC-SHA1 challenge response, in HMAC_LT64 mode
 * Setting configuration using `CMD_SET_CONF_{1,2}`
 * Using the protection access code to prevent accidental slot overwrite

## Installing

The pre-built `.cap` files for each release can be found on the
https://github.com/arekinath/ykotpapplet/releases[project release page].

You can use the
https://github.com/martinpaljak/GlobalPlatformPro[Global Platform] command-line
tool (`gp`) to upload the applet to your JavaCard:

-----
$ gp -install YkOtpApplet.cap
CAP loaded
-----

If installed on a Yubikey, you can program the applet with an HMAC secret using
https://github.com/arekinath/yktool[yktool]:

-----
$ yktool list
Yubikeys available:
  - Yubikey 4 #279305487 v4.0.0

$ echo 'b6e3f555562c894b7af13b1db37f28deff3ea89b' | yktool program hmac 1 -x -X
Programmed slot 1 ok

$ printf 'aaaa' | yktool hmac 1 -x
72:7E:C8:E8:15:EE:C5:32:8F:9D:9C:BE:5E:F2:4E:A8:36:D7:CE:56
-----

If you install the applet to another JavaCard without HID capabilities, that tool
won't detect your card as a Yubikey. You can program a secret by sending the correct
ADPU sequence to your card. A helper script to generate those ADPUs is included in
the repository:

-----
$ cat /dev/random | ./show_initalization_command.py
opensc-tool -s 00A4040007A000000527200100 -s 0001030034000000000000000000000000000000001B1AECF9000077C051BAFD8E996FEED70C1384BEB94E0000000000000000402600000000
-----

The script must be fed with exactly twenty bytes of keying material - the
HMAC secret for the slot. If you have the secret in hex form you can use 
`xxd -r -p` to convert it to binary.

Sending these two ADPUs (one to select the correct applet and one to program
a slot config) to the card will initialize the applet. You can send ADPUs with
GlobalPlatformPro, OpenSC, or the JavaCard tool of your choice.

See the contents of the Python script to set a slot protection ("access") code.

## Building the project

We use https://github.com/martinpaljak/ant-javacard[ant-javacard] for builds.

-----
$ git clone https://github.com/arekinath/YkOtpApplet
...

$ cd YkOtpApplet
$ git submodule init && git submodule update
...

$ export JC_HOME=/path/to/jckit-2.2.2
$ ant
-----

The capfile will be output in the `./bin` directory, along with the `.class`
files (which can be used with jCardSim).
